---
layout: post
title:  "RECOMB-GenBio 2025 Call for Papers"
isStaticPost: true
---

#### RECOMB-GenBio 2025 Call for Papers 

The conference brings together leading researchers from academia and industry to discuss the latest development in the Foundational and Generative AI for Biomedicine area.

#### Topics of Interest (including but not limited to)

 * Datasets and data generation for foundational models in biology
 * Architectures for foundational models in biology
 * Cloud compute and storages for biomedicine
 * Foundational models for various biological entities (DNA, mRNA, proteins etc.)
 * Foundational models for bioimaging data
 * Foundational models for clinical data
 * Generative AI for molecular design
 * Generative AI for clinical decision making
 * Integration of foundational models in biology
 * Applications and use cases for foundational models in biology and medicine

#### Key Dates

Proceedings and Overlay tracks

 * Abstract registration deadline: **July 24, 2025** at 23:59 AoE
 * Submission deadline: **July 31, 2025** at 23:59 AoE (updates to existing registered abstracts only)
 * Author notification: August 3, 2025

Short talks / Posters 

 * Abstract submission deadline: **August 7**, 2025 at 23:59 AoE
 * Authors will be notified shortly after submission

#### Tracks

We solicit contributions in three categories (“tracks”) as follows.

##### Proceedings Track

Manuscripts describing original work on computational aspects of genomic research involving large genomic datasets. Accepted papers will be published as a proceedings volume in the Lecture Notes in Computer Science (LNCS) series from Springer-Verlag, which will be available at the conference. Authors should submit their manuscripts in PDF format according to the LNCS series guidelines: http://www.springer.com/us/computer-science/lncs/conference-proceedings-guidelines and use the proceedings templates, either for LaTeX or for Word. Springer’s proceedings LaTeX templates are also available in Overleaf. Authors are encouraged to include their ORCIDs in their manuscripts.

At the time of submission, and for the entire review period, the work should not be under review by any other conference or scientific journal.

To indicate your submission should be considered for the proceedings track, please include “[Proceedings]” at the end of the paper title.

##### Highlights Track

We invite the submission of full papers that have been published, or accepted for publication, between July 15th, 2024 and the submission deadline July 15th 2025. Publications that are &quot;in press&quot; and already linked on the journal web site by July 15th 2025 are also welcome. A group of experts will select the papers to be presented at the meeting considering the impact of the work on the field, the likelihood that the work will make a good presentation, and the relevance to biomedical research, in general.

Accepted presenters for the Highlights Track are required to make the presentation themselves, and must register and pay to attend the conference.

Submissions should include a 250-word Scientific Justification (abstract-like argument) that explains how the work of the submitted paper(s) is impacting the field. More details are given below.

##### Abstracts for short talks or posters

Regular abstracts describing original work, including software applications. These will be considered for short oral presentations or posters. A 1-2 page abstract describing the methods and key results should be submitted via the EasyChair system.

#### Paper and Abstract Submission Procedures

Manuscripts for the “proceedings track” should not exceed 10 pages using at least 10-point font on U.S. standard 8 1/2 by 11-inch paper with no less than one-inch margin all around. This excludes the cover page and references. The cover page should have the title, the corresponding author’s email address, and the abstract. An optional short appendix can be included if necessary, but reading it will be at the discretion of the program committee. Manuscripts must be submitted electronically in PDF format via the EasyChair system, at the following address:

[https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=GenBio2025](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=genbio2025)

An author of each accepted paper and abstract is expected to attend the workshop and present the work.

##### Special handling of papers submitted to RECOMB 2025

If you would like to submit a paper rejected by RECOMB 2025 main conference to RECOMB-GenBio, you have the option to transfer your reviews. In that case, please submit by the regular deadline and include in your submission a Cover Letter that includes the reviews received from RECOMB together with a rebuttal addressing the concerns raised by the reviewers. The submitted manuscript should also be modified according to the reviews, or provide an explanation of why modifications are unnecessary. All reviews will be treated confidentially and will only be visible to the PC members. Note that authors of papers rejected by RECOMB 2025 main conference may also submit their papers without transferring their reviews if they wish to do so.
